### BIBLIOGRAPHY
* NOISE SYNTHESIS TECHNOLOGY: A TOOL FOR VIRTUAL NOISE PROTOTYPING. Goran Pavić. Proceedings of COBEM 2007. 19th International Congress of Mechanical Engineering, Brasilia, DF.
  * Abstract. Noise Synthesis Technology (NST) is an approach aimed at low noise design of industrial products where noise is generated by individual sources implanted into a noiseless main frame (housing). NST addresses all major noise mecanisms in a systematic step-by-step procedure, simple enough for use even by less advanced industries. The originality of NST is that it predicts trends in the overall noise by combining data from real noise sources with a simplified modelling of the main frame. The underlying approach to such modelling is a modified sub-structuring technique. The simplified frame model has the advantage of being more robust and more easy to implement for the purpose of noise level prediction and oralisation. The paper outlines the basics of the NST approach and shows some industrial examples of its use.
    * Keywords: noise control, virtual prototype, source characterization, noise prediction, sound oralisation
* Virtual Noise Synthesis: listening to machines that don’t exist. Goran Pavić. Acoustics & Vibration Laboratory. National Institute of Science. Lyon, France. CAV workshop. May 2012.
* Texton Noise. B. Galerne, A. Leclaire and L. Moisan. Volume xx (200y), Number z, pp. 1–12. Laboratoire MAP5, Université Paris Descartes and CNRS, Sorbonne Paris Cité. CMLA, ENS Cachan, CNRS, Université Paris-Saclay, 94235 Cachan, France.
  * Abstract. Designing realistic noise patterns from scratch is hard. To solve this problem, recent contributions have proposed involved spectral analysis algorithms that enable procedural noise models to faithfully reproduce some class of textures. The aim of this paper is to propose the simplest and most efficient noise model that allows for the reproduction of any Gaussian texture. Texton noise is a simple sparse convolution noise that sums randomly scattered copies of a small bilinear texture called texton. We introduce an automatic algorithm to compute the texton associated with an input texture image that concentrates the input frequency content into the desired texton support. One of the main features of texton noise is that its evaluation only consists to sum thirty texture fetches on average. Consequently texton noise generates Gaussian textures with an unprecedented evaluation speed for noise by example. A second main feature of texton noise is that it allows for high quality on-the-fly anisotropic filtering by simply invoking existing GPU hardware solutions for texture fetches. In addition, we demonstrate that texton noise can be applied on any surface using parameterization-free surface noise and that it allows for noise mixing.
    * Categories and Subject Descriptors (according to ACM CCS): [Computer Graphics]: Image manipulation—Texturing
* What are Textons? SONG-CHUN ZHU, CHENG-EN GUO, YIZHOU WANG AND ZIJIAN XU. Departments of Statistics and Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles. Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. International Journal of Computer Vision 62(1/2), 121–143, 2005. (c) 2005 Springer Science + Business Media, Inc. Manufactured in The Netherlands. Received December 10, 2002; Revised August 27, 2003; Accepted October 3, 2003. First online version published in November, 2004.
  * Abstract. Textons refer to fundamental micro-structures in natural images (and videos) and are considered as the atoms of pre-attentive human visual perception (Julesz, 1981). Unfortunately, the word “texton” remains a vague concept in the literature for lack of a good mathematical model. In this article, we first present a three-level generative image model for learning textons from texture images. In this model, an image is a superposition of a number of image bases selected from an over-complete dictionary including various Gabor and Laplacian of Gaussian functions at various locations, scales, and orientations. These image bases are, in turn, generated by a smaller number of texton elements, selected from a dictionary of textons. By analogy to the waveform-phonemeword hierarchy in speech, the pixel-base-texton hierarchy presents an increasingly abstract visual description and leads to dimension reduction and variable decoupling. By fitting the generative model to observed images, we can learn the texton dictionary as parameters of the generative model. Then the paper proceeds to study the geometric, dynamic, and photometric structures of the texton representation by further extending the generative model to account for motion and illumination variations. (1) For the geometric structures, a texton consists of a number of image bases with deformable spatial configurations. The geometric structures are learned from static texture images. (2) For the dynamic structures, the motion of a texton is characterized by a Markov chain model in time which sometimes can switch geometric configurations during the movement. We call the moving textons as “motons”. The dynamic models are learned using the trajectories of the textons inferred from video sequence. (3) For photometric structures, a texton represents the set of images of a 3D surface element under varying illuminations and is called a “lighton” in this paper. We adopt an illumination-cone representation where a lighton is a texton triplet. For a given light source, a lighton image is generated as a linear sum of the three texton bases. We present a sequence of experiments for learning the geometric, dynamic, and photometric structures from images and videos, and we also present some comparison studies with K-mean clustering, sparse coding, independent component analysis, and transformed component analysis. We shall discuss how general textons can be learned from generic natural images.
    * Keywords: textons, motons, lightons, transformed component analysis, textures
* Algorithms for Solid Noise Synthesis. J. P. Lewis. Computer Graphics Laboratory, New York Institute of Technology.
 * Abstract. A solid noise is a function that defines a random value at each point in space. Solid noises have immediate and powerful applications in surface texturing, stochastic modeling, and the animation of natural phenomena. Existing solid noise synthesis algorithms are surveyed and two new algorithms are presented. The first uses Wiener interpolation to interpolate random values on a discrete lattice. The second is an efficient sparse convolution algorithm. Both algorithms are developed for model-directed synthesis, in which sampling and construction of the noise occur only at points where the noise value is required, rather than over a regularly sampled region of space. The paper attempts to present the rationale for the selection of these particular algorithms. The new algorithms have advantages of efficiency, improved control over the noise power spectrum, and the absence of artifacts. The convolution algorithm additionally allows quality to be traded for efficiency without introducing obvious deterministic effects. The algorithms are particularly suitable for applications where high-quality solid noises are required. Several sample applications in stochastic modeling and solid texturing are shown.
   * CR Categories and Subject Descriptors: I.3.3 [Computer Graphics]: Picture/Image Generation; I.3.7 [Computer Graphics]: Three-Dimensional Graphics and Realism – color, shading, shadowing, and texture. General Terms: Algorithms, Graphics. Additional Key Words and Phrases: Solid noise, texture, stochastic modeling, simulation of natural phenomena, texture synthesis, fractals.
* Wavelet Noise. Robert L. Cook Tony DeRose. Pixar Animation Studios.
 * Abstract. Noise functions are an essential building block for writing procedural shaders in 3D computer graphics. The original noise function introduced by Ken Perlin is still the most popular because it is simple and fast, and many spectacular images have been made with it. Nevertheless, it is prone to problems with aliasing and detail loss. In this paper we analyze these problems and show that they are particularly severe when 3D noise is used to texture a 2D surface. We use the theory of wavelets to create a new class of simple and fast noise functions that avoid these problems.
   * CR Categories: I.3.3 [Picture/Image generation]: Antialiasing— [I.3.7]: Three-Dimensional Graphics and Realism—Color, shading, shadowing, and texture. Keywords: Multiresolution analysis, noise, procedural textures, rendering, shading, texture synthesis, texturing, wavelets.
* Improving Wireless Simulation Through Noise Modeling. HyungJune Lee. Computer Systems Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, CA. Alberto Cerpa. School of Engineering, UC Merced, Merced, CA. Philip Levis. Computer Systems Laboratory, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.
 * Abstract. We propose modeling environmental noise in order to efficiently and accurately simulate wireless packet delivery. We measure noise traces in many different environments and propose three algorithms to simulate noise from these traces. We evaluate applying these algorithms to signal-to-noise curves in comparison to existing simulation approaches used in EmStar, TOSSIM, and ns2. We measure simulation accuracy using the Kantorovich-Wasserstein distance on conditional packet delivery functions. We demonstrate that using a closest-fit pattern matching (CPM) noise model can capture complex temporal dynamics which existing approaches do not, increasing packet simulation fidelity by a factor of 2 for good links, a factor of 1.5 for bad links, and a factor of 5 for intermediate links. As our models are derived from real-world traces, they can be generated for many different environments.
   * Categories and Subject Descriptors: I.6 [Simulation and Modeling]: General Terms: Experimentation. Keywords: Sensor networks, wireless simulation
* NOISE ON THE GRID: RHYTHMIC PULSE IN EXPERIMENTAL AND ELECTRONIC NOISE MUSIC. Mo H. Zareei. Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand School of Music. Ajay Kapur. California Institute of the Arts, Valencia CA, USA. Dale A. Carnegie. Victoria University of Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand.
 * ABSTRACT. This paper presents a discussion on the effect of metric rhythms in modern noise and experimental electronic music. The role of rhythm in electronic music is discussed, followed by an overview of the concept of noise and different takes on using “extra-musical” sounds, along with some influential examples in the history of noise music. The significance of a rhythmic pulse in genres of glitch and digital noise is examined. Finally, the dilemma of using “beat” in art-music and the boundaries between pop and art cultures are presented.
* Noise: The Political Economy of Music. Jacques Attali. Theory and History of Literature, Volume 16. University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis / London, 1985.
* Poiesthetic play in generative music. John Priestley. These and Dissertations. Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, Virginia, USA. April, 2014.
 * Abstract. Generative music creates indeterminate systems from which music can emerge. It provides a particularly instructive field for problems of ontology, semiotics, aesthetics, and ethics addressed in poststructuralist literary theory. I outline how repetition is the ultimate basis of musical intelligibility and of memory in general. The extension of these abstractions beyond tonal music to sound in general is afforded by the concrete iterability of audio recording media. Generative systems delineate a music that is repeatable in principle and in certain qualities, though not in specific forms; a music that produces emergent complexities from novel combinations, retaining the potential to surprise. I study how noise is prevailingly presented as complementary to intention, and how music that complicates intention entails discourses of noise and purity. I compare competing narratives for the role of noise in the development of Western music under classical, avant-garde, and experimental traditions. Music functions across these narratives as a proxy for negotiation of individual and collective values, how order is imposed. Expression affirms the metaphysics of presence by averring the socially unmediated interiority of the subject. Experimentalists are skeptical toward expression, yet frequently insist on the asemiotic self-sufficiency of music. Generative musicians extend this animism, imputing living intelligence behind sounds. I further examine discourses surrounding creation and interpretation in the arts and human sciences, in particular how listening is a manner of composition. Poiesthesis is a play of materials as well as signs, facilitated by recording in a recombinant practice distinct from the encodings of notation and the approximate repetitions of aural tradition. Generative music deals in entities that are neither composition nor instrument, and yet both. The music market and the aesthetic field alike struggle to control the valuation of desubstantiated texts of generative systems, producing a kind of agoraphobia. As play is decentered from authorial intent, so must critical evaluation be. I critique the pervasive yet tacit Western notion that human technoculture plays out on a continuum from Africa to robotics, ciphers for bodily essence and intellectual autism. This cultural projection turns out to resonate throughout the history of Western music’s regard of self and other.
* SOUND QUANTA. Brendan Bernhardt Gaffney. Burnheart Vision Press. Burnheartsynth.com. May, 2012. (*Ref. http://www.burnheartsynth.com/files/GaffneyThesisDigital.pdf)
